You may also like

PAPER • OPEN ACCESS

Bayesian estimation of switching rates for blinking
emitters
To cite this article: Jemy Geordy et al 2019 New J. Phys. 21 063001

View the article online for updates and enhancements.

- Efficient characterization of blinking
quantum emitters from scarce data sets
via machine learning
G Landry and C Bradac
- Quantum jumps and photon statistics in
fluorescent systems coupled to classically
fluctuating reservoirs
Adrián A Budini
- Quantum trajectories for realistic
photodetection: I. General formalism
P Warszawski and H M Wiseman

This content was downloaded from IP address 202.3.77.206 on 27/05/2026 at 05:24

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

https://doi.org/10.1088/1367-2630/ab1dfd

PAPER

Bayesian estimation of switching rates for blinking emitters
OPEN ACCESS

Jemy Geordy1,2, Lachlan J Rogers1,2, Cameron M Rogers3, Thomas Volz1,2 and Alexei Gilchrist1,2
RECEIVED

25 December 2018
REVISED

9 April 2019
ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION

30 April 2019

1
2
3

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW 2122, Australia
ARC Centre of Excellence for Engineered Quantum Systems, Australia
Launceston Church Grammar School, Mowbray Heights, Tasmania, 7248, Australia

E-mail: lachlan.j.rogers@quantum.diamonds
Keywords: blinking, Bayesian estimation, quantum emitter, hidden markov chain, switching rates

PUBLISHED

3 June 2019

Abstract
Single quantum light emitters are valuable resources for engineered quantum systems. They can
function as robust single-photon generators, allow optical control of single spins, provide readout
capabilities for atomic-scale sensors, and provide interfaces between stationary and ﬂying qubits.
Any further distribution of
Environmental factors can lead to single emitters exhibiting ‘blinking’, whereby the ﬂuorescence level
this work must maintain
attribution to the
switches between on and off states. Detailed characterisation of this blinking behaviour including
author(s) and the title of
the work, journal citation determining the switching rates is often a powerful way to gain understanding about the underlying
and DOI.
physical mechanisms. While simple thresholds can be used to identify the on and off intervals and thus
extract the rates from the time-series of counts for bright emitters with low background noise, such
approaches become difﬁcult for emitters ﬂuorescing at low levels, high noise, or switching at fast rates.
We develop a Bayesian approach capable of inferring switching rates directly from the time-series.
This is able to deal with high levels of noise and fast switching in ﬂuorescence traces. Moreover, the
Bayesian inference also yields a robust picture of the parameter uncertainties, providing a beneﬁt also
for bright emitters in low-noise settings. The technique can be adapted to identify the underlying
states as well as extracting the rates of switching. Finally, our method is applicable to a broad range of
systems that show behaviour analogous to a blinking emitter.
Original content from this
work may be used under
the terms of the Creative
Commons Attribution 3.0
licence.

1. Introduction
A wide variety of natural and artiﬁcial systems exhibit an unwanted stochastic switching between states,
sometimes called telegraph noise [1]. To remove this unwanted behaviour it is necessary to understand its
causes, and to gain an understanding of the causes it is necessary to be able to measure the characteristics of the
switching. A prominent example of a system exhibiting this random switching of state is provided by quantum
emitters where the behaviour is called blinking due to large intermittent changes in the observed ﬂuorescence.
Such emitters are valuable resources for engineered quantum systems, and the presence of blinking limits their
applicability. If fact, most quantum light emitters exhibit intermittency in their ﬂuorescence under continuous
excitation, including diamond colour centres [2–6], quantum dots [7–11], nanowires [8, 12], nanorods [12],
organic semiconductors [13], molecules [14–16], and other systems [17, 18]. In these quantum emitters, the
changes of state are typically caused by physical mechanisms that ﬂuctuate randomly (as opposed to
periodically) and often without regard for their history. The observed ﬂuorescence provides a convenient
connection to the underlying state and it is important to understand observed blinking statistics in order to
analyse the cause of the state switches. Key insights can be distilled from the switching rates and how these
depend on relevant parameters, and yet these rates are often the hardest to extract from the raw time series of
photon counts in particular for low-intensity light signals or noisy data.
Blinking typically leads to step-like switches in the ﬂuorescence time trace, as illustrated in ﬁgure 1(a). The
most common method used to analyse the on and off states from a blinking time series is threshold analysis
[2, 19, 20], illustrated for simulated data in ﬁgure 1(a). However, the choice of threshold intensity is essentially
arbitrary, and it can signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the statistics of the on and off states [21–24]. The threshold technique
© 2019 The Author(s). Published by IOP Publishing Ltd on behalf of the Institute of Physics and Deutsche Physikalische Gesellschaft

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

Figure 1. Not all blinking time traces suit analysis in terms of a threshold. (a) Simulated data with clear on and off states. The dotted line
represents a threshold, which is used to distinguish the on and off states. (b) Simulated blinking time trace with higher background
noise but same switching rates as in (a). (c) A high rate of switching events relative to the detector interval makes it harder even to see
the blinking.

becomes difﬁcult to use for emitters ﬂuorescing at low signal-to-noise ratios as depicted in ﬁgure 1(b), where the
distributions of counts from the on and off states to overlap. Thresholds are not at all helpful if the blinking
switches at rates high relative to the detector interval as shown in an extreme case in ﬁgure 1(c). Here we present a
method utilising Bayesian inference to ﬁnd the blinking rates directly from the photon-count data series,
without requiring a threshold. The method works for blinking quantum light emitters independent of their
brightness or speed of switching. This method is shown to be more accurate than threshold analysis, more
broadly applicable, and more capable of assessing the measurement uncertainty. Hence our method allows for a
better understanding of the mechanism behind the actual blinking phenomenon.
We model the blinking emitters on a hidden, discrete and continuous-time Markov chain. The accumulated
photon counts over a detector interval obscure or hide the underlying process which is assumed to be
memoryless. This naturally models a system whose time spent in each on and off state decays exponentially
[1, 2, 17]. The Bayesian inference on this model then allows us to determine the underlying switching rates of
these hidden states. Some more complex physical systems have been found to have on and off intervals instead
distributed according to a power law [19, 25–27], indicating non-Markovian behaviour, or memory effects in
the system. This precludes the independencies that lead to elegant factorisation in the derivations presented
here, and so the computational processes would need to be signiﬁcantly extended to tackle such data. However,
the problems identiﬁed here for threshold analysis certainly also apply to non-exponential distributions. In fact,
reliable discrimination between exponential and power law dependence is only possible by careful and reliable
analysis of the blinking data.
We have modelled three behaviours for the state relative to the detector interval. In section 2 we analyse a
simple blinking process using a discrete time Markov chain (DTMC), where the emitter is assumed to be either
on or off during each detector interval and switching of state can occur only at the interval boundaries. The
extreme case of continuous switching within the detector intervals is analysed in section 3 using a continuous
time Markov continuous time Markov chain (CTMC). In real experiments only a ﬁnite number of switching
events are likely to occur within any given detector interval rather than no switching or arbitrary switching
events. Such a process is discussed in section 4 using a discrete time Markov chain and considering subintervals
inside the detector interval. Finally in section 5 we show how to use the Bayesian analysis to infer the state at each
time step.

2

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

Figure 2. Markov modelling the evolution of the state. Left: a discrete time Markov with d time steps per detection interval. In this case
ad and bd are the switching probabilities. Right: a continuous time Markov process where ra and rb are switching rates.

2. DTMC single-step model
2.1. Model description
The critical step in making an inference on the blinking rates from the observed ﬂuorescence data is constructing
a model of how the counts arise given the structure of the problem. We consider that the emitter has only two
relevant states that affect the ﬂuorescence levels: an on state and an off state, and there is some mechanism that
causes the emitter to switch between these states. We model the switching as a Markov, where the current state is
sufﬁcient to determine the future dynamics. For simplicity, we begin by considering the state to be ﬁxed for the
entire detector interval and it can only switch at the boundaries with switch-on and switch-off probabilities α1
and β1 respectively, where the subscript represents the allowed number of state changes per detector interval.
This notation anticipates a DTMC which allows for multiple switching events per detector interval, which is
discussed in later sections. The Markov chain for this more general model is depicted on the left in ﬁgure 2,
where d=1 corresponds to the single switching opportunity case.
The blinking model also contains the ﬂuorescence and background rates λ and μ. If the emitter is in an offstate then the detector can still register counts (known as dark-counts) due to noise processes in the detector or
electronics. These counts are well modelled by a Poissonian process with a rate μ. While ﬂuorescing, it is
assumed that the emitter is being driven by a strong classical pump so the statistics of the photon counts are also
well modelled by a Poissonian process (i.e. shot noise) with an overall rate λ that includes detector inefﬁciencies.
The observed counts are then Poissonian with a rate of either μ or m + l since the combination of two
independent Poissonian processes is again Poissonian. Given λ, μ, and the state st - 1 at the beginning of timestep t, the probability of seeing ct counts is
⎧  (c t ∣m)
st - 1 = 0
P (c t ∣st - 1 l m I1) = ⎨
,
⎩  (c t ∣m + l) st - 1 = 1

(1)

where st−1=1 represents the on state and st−1=0 represents the off state for interval t, I1 tags the single interval
model as the background information, and  (c∣ℓ ) = c ℓ exp (-ℓ ) c! is the probability of observing c counts
given a Poisson distribution with rate ℓ .
Clearly, if we knew the state of the emitter at each data point it would be a simple matter to infer the
switching rates. Unfortunately these states are not directly observable, and worst still, because the states are not
observed the switching probabilities become dependent on the entire history of the count data. This makes the
inference considerably more involved.
We can summarize the dependencies amongst the variables by the Bayesian network (BN) [28] shown in
ﬁgure 3. The BN can be used to determine conditional independencies between the problem variables, using the
property of d-separability. In the BN, st−1 and st represents the state of the emitter at the boundaries of the tth
detector interval, but for the single-step model I1 the initial state extends for the whole duration so the dashed
arrows in the ﬁgure should be omitted. That is, equation (1) depends only on st−1 (this will change for multi-step
models). The key variable independencies are the following

3

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

Figure 3. A partial Bayesian network representing the joint probability distribution of problem parameters. The pattern of nodes and
connections inside the central grayed region representing detection interval t are repeated for each data value. We are estimating
parameters ra , rb , λ, and μ given the observed counts ct. For the discrete time models ra and rb represent the probabilities ad and bd
respectively. Enough of the full network is drawn to be able to easily determine the variable independencies. In the case of a single step
over the detector interval, st−1 is the state over the entire interval and the dashed arrows are absent. In all other cases st−1 and st are the
states at the boundaries of the detector interval.

a1 ^b1 ^l^m∣I1

(2)

st ^su∣st - 1 W1 (u < t - 1)
c t ^c u, s v∣st - 1 W1 (u ¹ t , v ¹ t ) ,

(3)
(4)

where W1 = a1 b1 l m I1 for compactness. We will make use of these independencies in the following section.
2.2. Bayesian inference


Ultimately, the quantity we want to infer is P (a1 b1∣c I1) where c º c1 c2 ¼ cN is the set of count data
obtained over N detector intervals. Using Baye’s rule, the posterior probability distribution of a1 and b1 can be
written as,

P (a1 b1∣I ) P (c ∣a1 b1 I1)

P (a1 b1∣c I1) =
.
(5)

P (c ∣I1)
The rates of ﬂuorescence and background counts, λ and μ can be added then removed by marginalisation,

P (a1 b1∣I1) P (c l m∣a1 b1 I1)

P (a1 b1∣c I1) = dl dm

P (c ∣I1)
1

dl dmP (a1 b1 l m∣I1) P (c ∣W1).
=

P (c ∣I1)

ò ò

(6)

ò ò

(7)

Note that if μ and λ are known independently then the integrals in (7) are unnecessary and this will be true in all
the models we develop. Given (2) we can factor P (a1 b1 l m∣I1) = P (a1∣I1) P (b1∣I1) P (l∣I1) P (m∣I1). We will go
further and take them all as constant over some initial range so that
1


P (a1 b1∣c I1) =
dl dmP (c ∣W1)
(8)

and with the normalisation factor  to be determined at the end.

As stated earlier, if all the states s º s0 s1 ¼ sN - 1 were known together with Ω1 the probability of all the
counts would be easily determined. We can use the same trick of adding these parameters then marginalising
over them so that,


 

P (c ∣W1) = å P (c s ∣W1) = å P (c ∣s W1) P (s ∣W1) ,
(9)

ò ò


s


s

4

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

where å s = å s ¼ å s
0

N-1

 
. Using the independencies (4), P (c ∣s W1) can be simpliﬁed to
N
 
P (c ∣s W1) =  P (c t ∣st - 1W1) ,

(10)

t =1

and each term is determined by (1).

The remaining P (s ∣W1) term cannot be simply factorised over the states despite being a Markov chain, as
observing Ω1 introduces possible dependencies. We can however expand using the product rule and simplify by
making use of the independencies in (3):
N

P (s ∣W1) =  P (st ∣st - 1 W1) P (s 0∣W1) ,

(11)

t =1

where we have chosen to expand in temporal order.
Finally, the inference becomes
1

P (a1 b1∣c I1) =


ò ò

N

dl dm å  P (c t st ∣st - 1 W1) ´ P (s 0∣W1)

s t =1

(12)

where we have used (4) to write the joint distribution between ct and st.

The problem with (12) is that the sum over s contains 2N terms each of which has N products. This will
rapidly become intractable as the size of the data grows. Fortunately it is possible to rewrite (12) as a single term
with N 2×2 matrix products. Consider the following matrix:
⎡ P (c t st = 0∣st - 1 = 0 W1) P (c t st = 0∣st - 1 = 1 W1)⎤
Rt = ⎢
⎥,
⎣ P (c t st = 1∣st - 1 = 0 W1) P (c t st = 1∣st - 1 = 1 W1)⎦

(13)

⎡ P (s 0 = 0∣W1)⎤

D0 = ⎢
⎥
⎣ P (s 0 = 1∣W1)⎦

(14)

and vector

then
N

P
(
c
s
∣
s
W
)
P
(
s
∣
W
)
=
[
1
1
]
å  t t t-1 1 0 1
 Rt D0,
N


s t =1

(15)

t =1

where the product on the right hand side is read as decreasing in t to the right. The equivalence in (15) is readily
veriﬁed by expanding a few terms out. The matrix multiplication will sum over the columns of Rt which is a
summation over the states st−1. Each successive multiplication sums over another state and the ﬁnal
multiplication by the row vector [1 1] will sum over sN.
With this equivalence, the inference reads
1

P (a1 b1∣c I1) =


N

dl dm [1 1]  Rt D0,

ò ò

(16)

t =1

which is easily computable. Note that care must be taken to avoid underﬂow or overﬂow in calculating the
matrix products.
As a demonstration of the algorithm, ﬁgure 4(a) shows the credible regions of a1 and b1 for the data given in
ﬁgure 1(b). The marginal distributions of all unknown parameters (a1, b1, μ and λ) are given in ﬁgure 4(b). It
should be noted that the inference contains no approximations or arbitrary choices, and makes use of all the
data. The key point of contention with observed data is whether the model is realistic to the system. If it is, then
the inference faithfully converges on the underlying values regardless of what they are. For example in ﬁgure 5 we
generated count data assuming high probabilities of switching (a1 = 0.8 and b1 = 0.9) so the data looks very
unlike the usual blinking trace. The inference quickly converges on the correct probabilities despite this.
2.3. Comparison with threshold analysis
In this subsection we compare our Bayesian inference technique with the conventional threshold analysis
technique for extracting the on and off rates from a blinking time trace. To make threshold analysis possible, data
is taken from the simulated count trace from ﬁgure 1(a) which has well separated on and off states. Given a
5

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

Figure 4. (a) Inference of the switching probabilities on simulated data given in ﬁgure 1(b). The contours contain the 50%, 90%, and
99% credible regions. The true value is shown as red dot. (b) Probability distributions of a1 and b1 and marginal distributions of μ and
λ. The true values of the unknown parameters are given in red bar.

Figure 5. (a) Time trace with high switching probability of a1 = 0.8 and b1 = 0.9, simulated using the DTMC single-step model.
(b) The posterior distribution for switching probabilities inferred using single interval model.

threshold Ithreshold, the emitter is taken to be in the on state if the intensity In in the nth time bin satisﬁes
In>Ithreshold and it is off if In  Ithreshold . A variety of methods have been employed for selecting the threshold,

6

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

Figure 6. Comparison of Bayesian inference with threshold analysis. (a) Thresholds try to identify the states by a separation point
between the two peaks in the histogram of counts. This is a close-up of the histogram in ﬁgure 1(a), with four thresholds marked
according to various rules found in the literature (see footnote). (b) A threshold allows the on and off periods to be identiﬁed, and the
distribution of durations is obtained from histograms. Here the histogram of on durations is shown with various (arbitrary) choices of
binning. An exponentially decaying ﬁt to this histogram (illustrated for 10 bins) yields the switching rate. (c) Switching probabilities
for the data in ﬁgure 1(a) were determined with thresholds ranging from 15 to 24 counts, and for the binning options illustrated in (b).
Results for the four thresholds marked in (a) are circled in corresponding colours for 10 bins. The grey mark with error bars represents
the mean and standard deviation of the range of points obtained for 17  Ithreshold  21, which are arbitrarily considered ‘reasonable’
options. None of the arbitrary choices of threshold or binning yield a result lying within the 99% credible region of the Bayesian
inference.

and four are considered here4. These are shown in ﬁgure 6(a) over a close-up of the centre of the counts
histogram from ﬁgure 1(a).
Once the on and off periods are identiﬁed they can be binned by duration into histograms [1, 2, 20, 21].
Figure 6(b) shows the on duration histogram for a given threshold, highlighting the way that arbitrary choice of
binwidth impacts the perceived distribution. A separate histogram can be produced for the off periods, and
exponentially decaying ﬁts to these histograms yield the characteristic on and off lifetimes from which the
switching probabilities or rates are obtained [1, 2]. This analysis was performed with a range of thresholds and of
duration binwidths to explore how the outcomes depend on these choices, and the results are displayed in
ﬁgure 6(c). Results for the four marked thresholds are marked at the 10-duration-bins case because this was the
default option in the package used for data processing (numpy).
Threshold analysis does not provide any mechanism for estimating the uncertainty in the extracted
swithching rates. This is because the fundamental measurement uncertainty arises from the difﬁculty in
distinguishing short switching events noise spikes in the count time trace. It is possible to acknowledge a kind of
‘processing uncertainty’ by considering that various thresholds and bins are plausible, and accounting for the
range of corresponding results. The grey error-bar mark in ﬁgure 6(c) indicates the mean and standard deviation
of all results obtained for 17  Ithreshold  21 and histograms with 8–12 bins. The credible regions obtained
from our Bayesian inference on the same blinking time trace is also shown in the ﬁgure. It is obvious from the
picture that our Bayesian inference has converged close to the true value (the red dot in the ﬁgure 6(c)), and
provided a meaningful assessment of the uncertainty. None of the values obtained from threshold analysis are
very close, and the Bayesian inference works better even for this time trace with very discernible blinking.
4

The four methods employed here are: (i) the minimum value between two peaks of the intensity histogram [21], which has been
numerically determined here from a double-Poissonian ﬁt. This threshold is illustrated in ﬁgure 1(a), and marked with the same magenta
colour in ﬁgure 6(a). (ii) Two standard deviations above the mean intensity of background counts [19–21, 29, 30], indicated by a golden line
in ﬁgure 6(a). (iii) The highest possible background count rate over total duration of the experiment [21]. Here we have taken this to be the
position where the off state Poissonian normalised to the number of measurement time steps dips below 1, and it is indicated by a cyan line in
ﬁgure 6(a). (iv) The mid point between two peaks in the counts histogram [21, 29], marked with an orange line in ﬁgure 6(a).

7

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

3. CTMC model
In the previous section the emitter could only switch states at the boundaries of the detection interval. Though
this is a hidden Markov model, the inference was simple as the state is only obfuscated by the Poissonian
distribution of counts. In this section we go to the other extreme and assume the emitter can change state at any
point in time, possibly multiple times in a single detection interval. The previous single-interval model will be a
good approximation to this continuous time model in the limit that the switching rates are very small. In that
limit the occasional switch during a detector interval introduces negligible error and most intervals are either
entirely on or entirely off.
3.1. Model description
The emitter can switch at any time, so that the state is a function of time, i.e. s(t). This situation is modelled by a
CTMC as depicted on the right of ﬁgure 2. At any given time, the state can still only have one of two values but
can switch arbitrarily often in any time interval. The detection events are as before with the detectors reporting
the accumulated count from a time window of constant duration T. For clarity we shall take time to be expressed
in units of the detector interval so that T=1.
In a CTMC the time spent in any state is exponentially distributed, and since there are only two states, the
next state is deterministic. The characteristic lifetime of the off -intervals will be inversely proportional to the rate
of switching out of the off state which will be the switch-on rate ra . Similarly the on-intervals are inversely
proportional to the switch-off rate rb . In this model, these two parameters ra and rb , are the parameters we want
to infer, replacing a1 and b1.
The CTMC can be solved by the forward Kolmogorov equations. Representing the off state by the vector
[1 0]T and the on state by [0 1]T the transitions dynamics are encoded by the equation
dP ( t )
= QP (t ) ,
dt

(17)

⎡- ra ra ⎤
Q = ⎢ r - r ⎥.
⎣ b
b⎦

(18)

where

This has the formal solution P (t ) = exp (Qt ). From this solution we can determine the transition probabilities
Pab(t) from state a to state b in time t:
1
P00 (t ) =
(rb + ra e-(ra+ rb ) t ) ,
(19)
ra + rb
ra
P01 (t ) =
(1 - e-(ra+ rb ) t ) ,
(20)
ra + rb
rb
P10 (t ) =
(1 - e-(ra+ rb ) t ) ,
(21)
ra + rb
1
P11 (t ) =
(ra + rb e-(ra+ rb ) t ).
(22)
ra + rb
3.2. Bayesian inference

The basic inference is as before, we have a list of N detector counts c and we want to infer ra and rb while
optionally marginalising over the rates μ and λ leading an equivalent expression to equation (8) but for ra and rb :
1


P (ra rb∣c Ic ) =
dl dmP (c ∣Wc ) ,
(23)


ò ò

where Wc = ra rb l m Ic similar to previously, and the subscript denotes the continuous-time model, and  is
suitably redeﬁned.
To get traction on the problem, we add in the states at the boundaries of the detection interval sj=s(tj),
where the nth detection interval goes from tn−1 to tn and tn=n since T=1.

 

P (c ∣Wc ) = å P (c ∣s Wc ) P (s ∣Wc ).
(24)

s

Note that in this situation the states sj at the boundaries are not enough to specify the state during the detection
interval, unlike in the previous case where the state was constant during the whole interval. The indepencencies
are now
c n ^c m∣sn - 1 sn Wc m ¹ n

8

(25)

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

sn ^sm∣sn - 1 Wc m < n - 1

(26)

N

P (c ∣Wc ) = å  P (c n∣sn - 1 sn Wc ) P (sn∣sn - 1 Wc ) P (s 0∣Wc )

(27)

and we can simplify

s n= 1
N

=å  P (c n sn∣sn - 1 Wc ) P (s 0∣Wc ).

(28)


s n= 1

This expression can again be converted into an efﬁcient matrix equation identical in form to earlier:
N

N

n= 1

n= 1



å
 P (ct sn∣sn- 1 Wc ) P (s 0∣Wc ) = [1 1]  Rn D0


(29)

⎡ P (c n sn = 0∣sn - 1 = 0 Wc ) P (c n sn = 0∣sn - 1 = 1 Wc )⎤
Rn = ⎢
⎥,
⎣ P (c n sn = 1∣sn - 1 = 0 Wc ) P (c n sn = 1∣sn - 1 = 1 Wc )⎦

(30)

⎡ P (s 0 = 0∣Wc )⎤

D0 = ⎢
⎥.
⎣ P (s 0 = 1∣Wc )⎦

(31)

s

with

and

All that remains is to calculate P (cn sn∣sn - 1 Wc ). If we knew f, the fraction of the interval for which the emitter
was in the on state, then the counts would be given by a weighted Poissonian. That is,
P (c n sn∣sn - 1 Wc ) =

1

ò0 dfP (cn∣sn sn-1 f Wc ) P (sn f ∣sn-1 Wc ),

(32)

and
P (c n∣sn sn - 1 f Wc ) =  (c n∣m + fl).

(33)

Now, we need to ﬁnd an expression for P (sn f ∣sn - 1 Wc ). For brevity, we’ll introduce the notation
R ab ( f ) ≡ P (sn = b f ∣sn - 1 = a Wc ). This probability accounts for all the possible histories where the
detection interval spent a fraction f in state on and ended in the state sn given it started in state sn−1. The different
histories can be decomposed by differing numbers of switch events. Consider the case where the state starts and
ends in the off state, i.e. R00( f ). Clearly an odd number of switch events will not be consistent with the boundary
states and hence will have probability zero. With zero switch events the entire interval is off and the probability is
just the exponential distribution d ( f ) e-ra , where δ is the Dirac delta function. Two switch events partitions the
interval into three regions l1, l2 , and l3 with states off–on–off and probability
1-f

ò0 dl1e-r l ra e-r l rb e-r l = ra rb e-r (1-f )-r f (1 - f ),
a1

b 2

a 3

a

b

(34)

where we have used l2 = f and l1 + l3 = 1 - f . In general the interval will be partitioned into a set of on states
of total duration f and a set of off states of duration 1−f so that the exponentials combine and will not depend
on the durations l j . For example with six switches there are seven regions with three switch-on and three switchoff events, and the probability is
ra3 rb3 e-ra (1 - f ) - rb f ´
´

ò

1-f

ò

ò

f

ò

f - l2

dl2
dl 4
0
0

1 - f - l1

ò

A
1 - f - l1- l3

dl1
dl3
dl5 1.
0
0
0




(35)

B

The integrals in A calculate the volume of a two-dimensional simplex of side f, and those in B the volume of a
three dimensional simplex of side 1−f. Since the volume of an n-dimensional simplex of side f is f n/n!,
equation (35) evaluates to
f 2 (1 - f )3ra3 rb3 e-ra (1 - f ) - rb f
2!3!

.

(36)

Alternatively, these integrals can be evaluated using a Laplace transform as shown by Jaynes [31].
Summing over all switch events gives
¥

f k - 1 (1 - f ) k k k
ra rb
k = 0 (k - 1)!k!

R 00 ( f ) = d ( f ) e-ra + e-ra (1 - f ) - rb f å

9

(37)

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

Figure 7. (a) Inference of the switching rates on simulated data given in ﬁgure 1(c). The contours contain the 50%, 90%, and 99%
credible regions. The true value is shown as red dot. (b) Probability distributions of ra and rb and marginal distributions of μ and λ.
The true values of the unknown parameters are given in red bar.

= d ( f ) e-ra - e-ra (1 - f ) - rb f

( f - 1) ra rb
´ J1 (2 ( f - 1) fra rb ) ,
f

(38)

where J1(x) is the Bessel function of the ﬁrst kind. A similar argument yields the other possible fraction
probabilities:
R 01 ( f ) = ra J0 (2 ( f - 1) fra rb ) e-ra (1 - f ) - rb f

(39)

R10 ( f ) = rb J0 (2 ( f - 1) fra rb ) e-ra (1 - f ) - rb f

(40)

R11 ( f ) = d (1 - f ) e-rb + e-ra (1 - f ) - rb f

fra rb
f-1

´ J1 (2 ( f - 1) fra rb ).

(41)

So in summary we have
P (c n sn∣sn - 1 Wc ) =

1

ò0 df (cn∣m + fl) Rs s ( f )
n-1 n

(42)

which is an integral that needs to be done numerically.
The extreme case data in ﬁgure 1(c) was used as an example of the inference and is presented in ﬁgure 7. The
initial range of parameters was assumed to be equally likely anywhere in 0  ra, rb  8, and 0  l , m  18,
and a four-dimensional grid where each range was divided into 70 values was used in evaluating the posterior
probability in (29) for each data point to allow for temporary normalization and control of underﬂow.
3.3. Relation between single interval model and continuous-time model
The single interval model and the continuous time model make different assumptions about the underlying
switching mechanism, nevertheless if the switching rates ra and rb are low, we would expect the single interval
model to yield very similar results. This is because the detector intervals that contain internal switching events
will be relatively rare and will not contribute signiﬁcantly to the inference. Additionally, the discrete time model
assumes that the emitter remains in a constant state over each detector interval, which is a reasonable
approximation for small switching rates. It might be supposed that, if the rates are small, the single interval
model could be used as a more computationally efﬁcient approximation to the full inference. We now explore
the validity of this approximation.
The two models can be connected by the time spent in a given state. Consider a time interval Δt=T/d
which is a fraction of the measurement time. In the continuous-time model the probability of a state having a
lifetime Δt is exponentially distributed, e.g P0 (Dt ) ≡ P (s (t ) = 0: 0  t  Dt ) = exp (-ra Dt ). So for a model
where the state is ﬁxed for duration Δt, we can relate the probability of switching state to the probability of the
state not having lifetime Δt, e.g. αd=1−P0(Δt). Consequently,
a d = 1 - e-ra T d

10

(43)

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

Figure 8. Accuracy of the single-step inference to data simulated using a continuous model with various switching rates. The inference
error taken as the Euclidean distance between the true ra, rb and the mode of the posterior distribution. For small switching
probabilities the inference gives good agreement with the known parameters, but for higher switching probabilities the inference is
less accurate. The cyan line indicates an approximate threshold for applicability of the single-step model of ra rb < 0.1, which
corresponds approximately to a relative error 25% .

bd = 1 - e-rb T d .

(44)

Assuming small switching rates in the continuous model we can expand to ﬁrst order in the switching rates.
For Bessel function of the ﬁrst kind,
Jm (z ) »

⎛ z ⎞m
1
⎜ ⎟
G (m + 1) ⎝ 2 ⎠

z  1,

(45)

where G(x ) is the Gamma function. Hence at a low rate of switching, we can expand ﬁrst order in ra , rb to obtain
R 00 ( f ) » d ( f )(1 - ra ), R11 ( f ) » d (1 - f )(1 - rb ), R 01 ( f ) » ra and R10 ( f ) » rb . Furthermore, from (43)
and (44) with d=1, a1 » ra and b1 » rb . With this approximations (42) yields,
P (c n 0∣0 Wc ) » (1 - a1)  (c n∣m)

(46)

P (c n 1∣1 Wc ) » (1 - b1)  (c n∣m + l)

(47)

P (c n 1∣0 Wc ) » a1 c˜n

(48)

P (c n 0∣1 Wc ) » b1 c˜n,

(49)

where,
c˜n =

1

ò0 df (cn∣m + fl),

(50)

is the probability of obtaining cn counts averaged over all durations spent on in the interval. The ﬁrst two
probabilities are identical to those obtained in the single interval model. The last two differ, as in the single
interval model we made the arbitrary decision to take the switch event as happening at the ends of the intervals,
whereas in the correspondence between models we allow the switch to occur anywhere. However, detector
intervals that contain a switch event become rare when the rates are small. So the continuous time model
becomes indistinguishable from the single step model in this limit as expected.
The single interval model will lose accuracy as the rate of switching increases and this can be explored
numerically. In ﬁgure 8 we summarise such an investigation by plotting the difference between the true
switching rate (for data simulated from a continuous switching model) and the result of a single-interval model
inference. The colour map represents the Euclidean distance from the true value to the maximum value of the
posterior probability distribution. The black region corresponds to a small distance, and is therefore the most
applicable region for the single-interval inference. As the (continuous) rates increase the single-interval model
starts failing. An approximate threshold for applicability of the single-step model is when ra rb < 0.1, which
corresponds roughly to a relative error 25%. The continuous time model performs well throughout this entire
region (and beyond) as shown in ﬁgure 7, even though the traditional threshold technique cannot even be
applied to the data, as illustrated in ﬁgure 1(c).
A grid of 150×150 simulations were run to produce the colour map in ﬁgure 8, and the posterior
distributions for switching rates are shown for four illustrative cases. Note that the scales are different for each
contour plot. The lower left plot shows a good convergence of the inference to the true value, where the rates are
11

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

small. As both rates increase up the diagonal of the plane, the plots on the upper left and upper right show the
increasing deviation of the inference from the true value. In the top right the switching rates are so high that there
is an average of two switching events per detector interval. The posterior distribution is tightly converged since
there are a large number of switching events, but it is signiﬁcantly diverged from the true value. The lower right
plot considers a situation where the on rate is very high and off rate is low. The convergence is not good for this
case, since the asymmetry of switching rates results in very few switching off events—the data remains in the on
state for most of the time. The single-interval inference provides a good estimate for the slow rate, but
dramatically underestimates the fast rate which is beyond what is assumed in the model.

4. DTMC multi-step model
In the CTMC model of the previous section the emitter may switch state at any time, and we derived a ﬁnal
integral over the distribution of counts that has to be evaluated numerically. In general this may be difﬁcult or
inefﬁcient, and in such cases the continuous model may be approximated by a discrete switching model that
provides multiple possible switching points within each detector interval.
4.1. Recursion relation
Consider the nth detector interval, having boundary states sn−1 and sn; and observed counts cn. We have already
noted that this distribution is independent of the photon counts in adjacent detector intervals, and so the
inference developed within this interval will be equally valid for all intervals in the measurement. Furthermore,
this holds within a detector interval also; the count distribution in a given subinterval is independent of adjacent
subintervals given knowledge of the states at the boundaries of the sub-intervals.
We introduce the notation z x to denote the state of the emitter at fraction x within the detector interval
(0  x  1), where z0 = sn - 1 and z1 = sn . Also the counts in a fractional interval from time u to time v will be
denoted cu,v. In particular, we introduce the mid-point state z1 2 and then marginalize over it in order to identify
a useful recurrence relationship for the photon count distribution. This intermediate state breaks the original
interval into two subintervals, and clearly there are only cn+1 possible assignments for the subintervals
(c 0, 12 , c 12 ,1) to give the total counts: {(cn, 0), (cn - 1, 1),¼,(0, cn)}.
In the following discussion frequent distinction will be made between the four sub-cases of the photon count
distribution corresponding with the possible start and ﬁnish state possibilities zu and zu + t of an interval of
length t. To make this clearer we introduce the following notation:
fi, j (t , k) º P (c u, u+ t = k , zu+ t = j∣zu = i , Wt ) ,

(51)

where Ωt=αtβtλμIt assuming that switching probabilities αt and βt can be deﬁned over the time t. Using the
introduced intermediate state z1 2 gives rise to the expression
k

k

cd = 0

cd = 0

fi, j (t , k) = å fi,0 (t 2, c d ) f0, j (t 2, k - c d ) + å fi,1 (t 2, c d ) f1, j (t 2, k - c d )

(52)

which is the sum of the two discrete convolutions of count probability distributions corresponding to the two
possible mid-interval states. This offers a fundamental recursion relation between the probability distributions
of counts over successive halvings of the interval.
For a given interval t, fi, j(t,·) is function of counts (a slice through a joint probability distribution). Since in
any given experiment there will be a maximum count in an interval, the function fi, j(t,·) can be recorded as a
single dimensional array. In light of this, equation (52) shows that values of the functions fi, j(t,·) can be
calculated numerically from knowledge of the function values for half the interval, fi, j(t/2,·).
This recursion will apply in any system where the count distribution over a single time interval is
independent of adjacent intervals given knowledge of the boundary states; in cases where a closed form for the
count distribution is intractable this can be exploited to estimate the fully continuous distribution at low
computing time cost. As a demonstration of this process we now show that repeated application of equation (52)
facilitates fast and accurate estimates of the functions fi, j arising from the CTMC model.
4.2. Model description
The CTMC photon counts distribution has been shown to limit to Poissonian probabilities in the case when the
switching probabilities are small, and the state of the emitter is constant for most measurement windows. Even
when switching probabilities are high, however, the emitter state will be (nearly always) constant over time
windows sufﬁciently small. We construct a model in which the detector interval is subdivided into multiple
subintervals, and the emitter is allowed to switch state only at the boundaries of these subintervals (similar to the
discrete model in section 2). To leverage the intrinsic ‘halving’ suggested by the recursion relation discussed
12

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

Figure 9. Increasing the number of subintervals considered in the inference reduces the error of the obtained switching rates.
Simulated data with rα=rβ were taken from the set generated for ﬁgure 8 up to rα=rβ=2 and additional datasets were generated
for even faster rates. The multi-step inference was performed for various numbers of subintervals d and the euclidean error
determined by comparison of the known rates with the mode of the posterior distributions. The inset shows the 50%, 90%, and 99%
credible contours for the posterior distributions corresponding to d=2, 4, 8 for rα=rβ=1.9966 (the contours for d = 1 for this
dataset are shown in ﬁgure 8). The shaded region represents a relative error of 25%.

above, suppose then that a number of subintervals d=2m is chosen such that m is integer. If 1/d is a short
enough duration that the functions fi, j(1/d,·) are well-approximated by weighted Poissonians, then it is
expected that this model will give close agreement with the CTMC inference. For example, the region of
applicability identiﬁed in ﬁgure 8 suggests that m should be chosen at least large enough so that rα
rβ<0.1×22m for every rα and rβ under consideration. Since this bound increases exponentially with m, large
switching rates may be accommodated by modest increases in m.
In this model the total photon count observed in a detector interval is the sum of all counts that arise in each
subinterval within the detector interval. This kind of system which switches its state within the detector interval
can also modelled by DTMC. The switching probabilities over a subinterval are ad (probability of switching on)
and bd (probability of switching off ) as shown in ﬁgure 2. Here we want to infer the rates of switch-on (ra ) and
switch-off (rb ) per detector interval. The switch-on and switch-off probabilities ad and bd can be written in
terms of ra and rb as given in equations (43) and (44).
Using (as before) μ and λ to denote expected background and signal photon counts over a unit interval, and
ad and bd to denote switching probabilities over a period of 1/d, we have
⎧ (1 - a d )  (k∣m d )
i = 0, j = 0
⎪
⎪
i = 0, j = 1
a d  (k∣m d )
f i , j (1 d , k ) » ⎨
i = 1, j = 0
⎪ bd  (k∣(m + l) d )
⎪
⎩(1 - bd )  (k∣(m + l) d ) i = 1, j = 1.

The four cases of fi, j(1/d,·) may be stored as arrays indexed by the counts κ. Equation (52) may then be applied
m times to numerically approximate the values of fi, j(1,·).
4.3. Bayesian inference
As in the continuous time case, we are inferring the rates of switch-on ra and switch-off rb given the data counts

c . The inference proceeds almost identically, adding the unknown ﬂuorescence λ and background μ rates to the
problem, using the independencies and ﬁnally converting into a matrix form equivalent to the one given in (15),
N


P (c ∣ Wd ) = [1 1]  Rn D0
n= 1

(53)


with Rn and D0 equivalent to equations (30) and (31) respectively. Now we can use the recursion algorithm
outlined to calculate P (cn sn ∣ sn - 1 Wd ).
To demonstrate this inference and explore the signiﬁcance of the number of subintervals d, we tackle set of
data from the diagonal (ra = rb ) of ﬁgure 8. Three additional datasets beyond ra = rb = 2 were generated, and
inferences were calculated for d=1, 2, 4, 8. Euclidean distance was again used to measure the error in the
inference, and ﬁgure 9 shows the error increasing as ra, rb increase. Taking higher numbers d of subintervals into
consideration reduces the error, and d=4 is almost sufﬁcient to keep the entire ra, rb  2 region from ﬁgure 8
13

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

Figure 10. (a) Inference of the switching rates on simulated data given in ﬁgure 1(c) DTMC multi-step model with d=16 subintervals
was used for inference. The contours contain the 50%, 90%, and 99% credible regions. The true value is shown as red dot.
(b) Probability distributions of ra and rb and marginal distributions of μ and λ. The true values of the unknown parameters are given
in red bar.

enclosed inside the 25% relative error threshold. The inset illustrates the posterior distributions that correspond
to the third case in ﬁgure 8, except the plot scale is different. As d increases the location of the inference improves,
but the width of the distribution converges less tightly. This reﬂects the fact that for increasing d there are higher
numbers of intermediate states z j considered by the model but the amount of information provided by the
dataset is not increasing. In ﬁgure 9 each d eventually leads to the error increasing with about the same slope,
which is 2 ra . For a given d the inference seems to remain effectively bounded, and for large ra, rb the inference
differs from the true values by approximately the diagonal distance on the plane.
This investigation suggests that d=8 is roughly on the 25% relative error threshold for rates approaching 3.
To tackle the count data from ﬁgure 1(c) as before, we therefore choose d=16 and the results are presented in
ﬁgure 10. The inference is quite accurate, but not as good as the CTMC model. Increasing d will improve the
accuracy of this inference at the cost of increased time to recursively compute the discrete convolutions.

5. Inferring the state
An obvious extension of the work presented above is to determine the underlying state behind a data point given
all the data observed. In the case where the switching is happening many times per detector interval, this task
becomes ﬁnding what fraction of the interval was spend in a given state. Here, we illustrate how to solve this task
for the case of the single interval model. In this model the system has a ﬁxed state throughout the detector
interval and the task is to determine the state of interval k making use of all observed data, but without

knowledge of λ, μ, α1, or β1. Speciﬁcally, the task is to determine P (sk = a∣c I1), where a is either 0 or 1. For a
continuous switching model the posterior distribution will be of the proportion of time spent in a given state
underlying each data point.
In order to do the inference we add λ, μ, a1, β1 and the rest of the states and marginalise over them. An
application of Baye’s rule then yields,
1

P (sk = a∣c I1) =




P (c ∣s1 ¼ sk - 1 (sk = a) sk + 1 ¼ sn W1)
ò da1db1dldm så
¹s
k

´ P (s1 ¼ sk - 1 (sk = a) sk + 1 ¼ sn∣W1) ,

(54)

where Ω1=α1β1λμI1 as before and the prior probability distributions where taken as constant with the
normalisation  to be determined at the end. The summation is over all states sj where j ¹ k denoted in short

as s ¹ sk . Expanding the last term in temporal order and making use of the independencies in (3) and (4)
leads to,
14

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

Figure 11. (a) Simulated count data from a DTMC single-step model. (b) State at each time interval determined by the threshold
shown in (a). (c) The true state from the simulation. (d) Probability the state of an interval was ‘1’ inferred from the entire data
sequence. (e) The posterior probability of α1 and β1 given the same data. Note that as more data is observed the credible regions
converge of the true values of α1 and β1 and the inference of the state becomes much more accurate.

1

P (sk = a∣c I1) =


N

ò

da1 db1 dldm å  P (c t st ∣st - 1 W1) P (s 0∣W1).

s ¹ sk t = 1

(55)


The probability can be efﬁciently computed using the matrices Rt (13) and D0 (14), and either Rk(0) or Rk(1) for
a=0 or a=1 respectively, where
⎡ 0
⎡R
R ⎤
0 ⎤
Rk(0) = ⎢ k,00 k,01⎥ Rk(1) = ⎢
⎣ Rk,10 Rk,11⎥⎦
⎣ 0
0 ⎦

(56)

and Rk, ij = P (ck sk = i∣sk - 1 = j W1) giving the ﬁnal result
1

P (sk = a∣c I1) =




òda1db1dldm [1 1] Rn  Rk+1Rk(a) Rk-1  R1D0.

(57)

To demonstrate the algorithm in action, data was generated and analysed assuming known μ and λ, by both
a threshold and the full inference and is shown in ﬁgure 11. Determining the state by a threshold is shown in
ﬁgure 11(b) with the result being either state ‘0’ or state ‘1’. Using the inference based on the whole data yields the
probability distribution over the state. Figure 11(d) plots the probability that the state is ‘1’, P(sk=1), for each
data point k. Note how small ﬂuctuations past the threshold do not signiﬁcantly affect the probability of the state
and are consequently ﬁltered out. Additionally, the probability of state can convey the conﬁdence in the state
assignment—a value of 0.5 means it is equally likely to be either state, this information is lost when a threshold is
applied.

6. Conclusions
We have derived efﬁcient methods for obtaining the posterior distribution of blinking and emission rates given
observation of accumulated detector counts for several blinking models. The methods do not require
approximations to make the calculation tractable, and make use of all the observed data; the main ﬁtting task is
the selection and assumptions that go into the models. Moreover, the advantage of obtaining the posterior
distribution is that rigorous error bounds can be placed on the inferred parameters for example by use of
credible regions. We have also demonstrated how to use the data to determine the underlying state, and unlike a
threshold technique the result is automatically carries error bounds in the form of a probability distribution. It
would be an interesting extension to compare this application with other proposals for directly extracting the
state e.g. [18, 23, 32]. Though it should be noted that since the rates and the states are dependent on each other
15

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

the analysis cannot decouple into ﬁrst determining the states, then from those determining the rates of
transitions.
In general we expect the methods presented to apply to a wide variety of hidden Markov models, far beyond
the blinking of quantum emitters. For systems where there is a well-deﬁned state time, the single and multi-step
models will be a close ﬁt depending on how the data is accumulated. These models are then capable of
determining the model parameters for high or low switching probabilities. In systems that can switch at any time
the CTMC model is a better ﬁt, and though it requires the numerical evaluation of an integral as part of the
routine we have found that this is not a hindrance. In these type of systems the stepped models can be thought of
as approximations that are more efﬁcient for evaluation when the switching rates are low. Similarly we expect the
methods to readily generalize to more complex Markov models with more states and other methods of indirect
observation.

Acknowledgments
We would like to thank Yuval Sanders for pointing out the integral solution by Jaynes. Jemy Geordy
acknowledges that the work was done while holding the International Macquarie University Research
Excellence Scholarship (‘iMQRES MRES’) for Master of Research (Allocation number 2018116). Lachlan J
Rogers is the recipient of an Australian Research Council Discovery Early Career Award (project number
DE170101371) funded by the Australian Government. This research was funded in part by the Australian
Research Council Centre of Excellence for Engineered Quantum Systems (Project number CE170100009).

References
[1] Efros Al L and Rosen M 1997 Random telegraph signal in the photoluminescence intensity of a single quantum dot Phys. Rev. Lett. 78
1110–3
[2] Jantzen U et al 2016 Nanodiamonds carrying silicon-vacancy quantum emitters with almost lifetime-limited linewidths New J. Phys. 18
073036
[3] Neu E, Agio M and Becher C 2012 Photophysics of single silicon vacancy centers in diamond: implications for single photon emission
Opt. Express 20 19956–71
[4] Bradac C, Gaebel T, Naidoo N, Sellars M J, Twamley J, Brown L J, Barnard A S, Plakhotnik T, Zvyagin A V and Rabeau J R 2010
Observation and control of blinking nitrogen-vacancy centres in discrete nanodiamonds Nat. Nanotechnol. 5 345
[5] Castelletto S and Edmonds A 2012 680–890nm spectral range of nickel-nitrogen and nickel-silicon complex single centres in diamond
Proc. SPIE 8518 85180R
[6] Wang C 2007 A solid-state single photon source based on color centers in diamond PhD Thesis LMU
[7] Nirmal M, Dabbousi B O, Bawendi M G, Macklin J J, Trautman J K, Harris T D and Brus L E 1996 Fluorescence intermittency in single
cadmium selenide nanocrystals Nature 383 802
[8] Frantsuzov P, Kuno M, Janko B and Marcus R A 2008 Universal emission intermittency in quantum dots, nanorods and nanowires
Nat. Phys. 4 519
[9] Efros A L and Nesbitt D J 2016 Origin and control of blinking in quantum dots Nat. Nanotechnol. 11 661
[10] Galland C, Ghosh Y, Steinbrück A, Sykora M, Hollingsworth J A, Klimov V I and Htoon H 2011 Two types of luminescence blinking
revealed by spectroelectrochemistry of single quantum dots Nature 479 203
[11] Galland C, Ghosh Y, Steinbrück A, Hollingsworth J A, Htoon H and Klimov V I 2012 Lifetime blinking in nonblinking nanocrystal
quantum dots Nat. Commun. 3 908
[12] Frantsuzov P A, Volkán-Kacsó S and Jankó B 2013 Universality of the ﬂuorescence intermittency in nanoscale systems: experiment and
theory Nano Lett. 13 402–8
[13] Ruth A, Hayashi M, Zapol P, Si J, McDonald M P, Morozov Y V, Kuno M and Jankó B 2017 Fluorescence intermittency originates from
reclustering in two-dimensional organic semiconductors Nat. Commun. 8 14521
[14] Vanden Bout D A, Yip W-T, Hu D, Fu D-K, Swager T M and Barbara P F 1997 Discrete intensity jumps and intramolecular electronic
energy transfer in the spectroscopy of single conjugated polymer molecules Science 277 1074–7
[15] Dickson R M, Cubitt A B, Tsien R Y and Moerner W E 1997 On/off blinking and switching behaviour of single molecules of green
ﬂuorescent protein Nature 388 355–8
[16] Haase M, Hübner C G, Reuther E, Herrmann A, Müllen K and Basché T 2004 Exponential and power-law kinetics in single-molecule
ﬂuorescence intermittency J. Phys. Chem. B 108 10445–50
[17] Berhane A M, Bradac C and Aharonovich I 2017 Photoinduced blinking in a solid-state quantum system Phys. Rev. B 96 041203
[18] Gammelmark S, Mølmer K, Alt W, Kampschulte T and Meschede D Hidden markov model of atomic quantum jump dynamics in an
optically probed cavity Phys. Rev. A 89 043839
[19] Kuno M, Fromm D P, Hamann H F, Gallagher A and Nesbitt D J 2000 Nonexponential ‘blinking’ kinetics of single cdse quantum dots:
a universal power law behavior J. Chem. Phys. 112 3117–20
[20] Kuno M, Fromm D P, Hamann H F, Gallagher A and Nesbitt D J 2001 ‘On’/‘off’ ﬂuorescence intermittency of single semiconductor
quantum dots J. Chem. Phys. 115 1028–40
[21] Crouch C H, Sauter O, Wu X, Purcell R, Querner C, Drndic M and Pelton M 2010 Facts and artifacts in the blinking statistics of
semiconductor nanocrystals Nano Lett. 10 1692–8
[22] Frantsuzov P A, Volkán-Kacsó S and Jankó B 2009 Model of ﬂuorescence intermittency of single colloidal semiconductor quantum
dots using multiple recombination centers Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 207402
[23] Watkins L P and Yang H 2005 Detection of intensity change points in time-resolved single-molecule measurements J. Phys. Chem. B
109 617–28
[24] Amecke N, Heber A and Cichos F 2014 Distortion of power law blinking with binning and thresholding J. Chem. Phys. 140 114306

16

New J. Phys. 21 (2019) 063001

J Geordy et al

[25] Cichos F, von Borczyskowski C and Orrit M 2007 Power-law intermittency of single emitters Curr. Opin. Colloid Interface Sci. 12
272–84
[26] Tang J and Marcus R A 2005 Diffusion-controlled electron transfer processes and power-law statistics of ﬂuorescence intermittency of
nanoparticles Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 107401
[27] Tang J and Marcus R A 2005 Mechanisms of ﬂuorescence blinking in semiconductor nanocrystal quantum dots J. Chem. Phys. 123
054704
[28] Darwiche A 2009 Modeling and Reasoning with Bayesian Networks (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press)
[29] Cordones A A and Leone S R 2013 Mechanisms for charge trapping in single semiconductor nanocrystals probed by ﬂuorescence
blinking Chem. Soc. Rev. 42 3209–21
[30] Knappenberger K L, Wong D B, Romanyuk Y E and Leone S R 2007 Excitation wavelength dependence of ﬂuorescence intermittency in
cdse/zns core/shell quantum dots Nano Lett. 7 3869–74
[31] Jaynes E T 2003 Probability Theory: The Logic Of Science (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press) p 569 ch 18
[32] Taylor J N, Makarov D E and Landes C F 2010 Denoising single-molecule fret trajectories with wavelets and Bayesian inference Biophys.
J. 98 164–73

17

